Is it time to get high
in Trump's America?
That's into the Buzzsaw.
[THEME MUSIC]
>> SEAN STONE:
Welcome to "Buzzsaw,"
where we cut through the
mainstream narrative to explore
the hidden truths.
I'm your host, Sean Stone.
And with me today
is David Seaman,
who is a reporter and former
contributor to Huffington
Post and Business Insider.
He also has his own YouTube
channel, DavidSeamanOnline,
and today he gives us some
insight into his research.
So I actually want to
start by asking you--
because online it's
very scandalous,
the fact that Huffington
Post basically cut you off
as a contributor,
as I understand it
because you were questioning
Hillary Clinton's health
issues before the election.
>> DAVID SEAMAN: Yeah,
Sean, that's correct.
I had a contributorship
there, and they cut off
my access and my
contributorship shortly
after a story about her
alleged health problems
hit their home page, because
they have a trending component,
and the top stories
rank right there
on the front page
of Huffington Post.
Mine was the top story
in the overnight.
When somebody woke up in the
morning, they didn't like that,
and that was the end of my
Huffington Post chapter.
>> SEAN: So, needless to
say that Huffington Post was
basically biased in
terms of their stand.
>> SEAMAN: I believe so.
I believe it was biased.
And I wasn't even
really using my column
to promote political ideology.
It was mostly stuff about
cryptocurrency and gold
ownership, Bitcoin.
But then there was
this viral video
that Paul Watson had
put out about the claims
about her health being much
poorer than people thought,
and I just linked to that.
And on the basis of
that, I was removed.
>> SEAN: Yeah.
I want to get into
it more later,
but I certainly think it's
indicative to me of the idea
that the fake news is not
really just in the alt media.
Sure, there are fake news
stories going through the alt
media, but it's also the
mainstream media, I think,
that has not only--
there's a phoniness
to it, there's
also just an overall suspicion
I think that people have,
and rightfully so, of their
mainstream news sources because
of stories like yours, where
you're being axed, essentially,
for just raising questions.
>> SEAMAN: Yeah, exactly.
I think people want the
news, not the narrative.
And the Huffington
Post and a number
of other big
titles, some of them
on the right-- not all of them
are left-wing publications.
They have money, and they
have seemingly credible names,
but they're doing
exactly what you said.
They're promoting fake news.
It's not simply the
small independents.
It's also the big corporations.
And I think President
Trump to an extent
has found a workaround, which
is you just yell "fake news,"
and you point at the
person who's doing it.
And some of the
claims I make online
are pretty big,
controversial claims,
but it's always
sourced to something
that I believe in,
so either a Wikileaks
email or a firsthand
source who's
willing to go on the record.
I don't believe in things
like, oh, someone told me--
I can't tell you who it is.
There was this thing on the back
of a napkin, and I oversaw it.
That's not my style
of journalism.
And yet the
mainstream media, they
conduct that style of
journalism, where they say,
hey, we have unnamed sources
saying A, B, and C. No, no, no,
you don't get to
use unnamed sources.
We don't get that luxury.
Why do you?
And we're seeing a lot of that.
>> SEAN: Yeah, that was
always sort of the luxury
of the investigative
journalists,
was that they basically were
able to have their unnamed
sources, but because oftentimes
their editor knew who it was
and there was a notion that
there was establishment press--
the idea was "The Washington
Post" and "The New York Times,"
these editors were respected,
and they would know who
the source are and make
sure the story was vetted.
>> SEAMAN: We can no
longer trust that.
>> SEAN: Exactly.
I don't know that
you ever could,
because I think it was always
essentially an establishment
perspective.
Guys like Sy Hersh have always
been great journalists as far
as having challenged
the establishment
and done it repeatedly, so
that gives them credibility.
But on the whole,
I think we've seen
a lot of the feeling of the
establishment press basically
serving the establishment
point of view.
And now we're entering a
world where people obviously
don't need to turn to CNN
or Fox News or "New York
Times" or "Washington
Post" for their news.
They're getting their news
from a whole collection
of sources, which is
both-- let's be honest.
It's both dangerous
and positive.
I mean, I see it
all the time where
people are spouting
things, and it's like,
you just saw someone's
YouTube video,
and there's no
journalism behind it.
It's just literally
their perspective.
And so in a sense, how
do we navigate for truth
in what is becoming a
very post-factual reality?
>> SEAMAN: I think we're moving
towards trusting individuals
more than trusting these names.
So you mentioned an
individual you trust.
I think we're going to see more
of that, where I'll say, look,
I think Glenn Greenwald is a
good reporter when it comes
to national security stuff.
And I can say that
it doesn't matter
if he's working at "The
Guardian" or "The Intercept"
or somewhere else.
It's that name that
remains credible, until he
kind of blows his cover.
If he does something that
turns out to be false,
then the public should not
trust him as much anymore.
But since he really hasn't,
he has a lot of my trust,
and the same with Wikileaks--
10 years of publishing
actual e-mails.
Not a single one has
been a fake or a fraud,
so they have a lot of my trust.
And other independent
journalists, I think,
should feel the same way.
Unless they breach
that trust, there's
no reason not to
trust Wikileaks.
There's no reason not
to trust Glenn Greenwald
or other individuals.
There is reason not to trust
"The Washington Post"--
the change in ownership.
For people who don't
know this, it's
owned by Jeff Bezos, the
guy behind amazon.com
he owns "The Washington Post."
Since that ownership
switch, there
has been a change in narrative.
You can agree or disagree
with the narrative,
but just to give an example,
"The Washington Post"
ran a story on their website
calling me an online bully.
And I couldn't really push back
against that, because there
is no individual behind it.
If it was someone like--
if it was Sean Stone,
I'd say on Twitter, hey, Sean
Stone, why are you saying this?
And I'd get a response.
But it was just "The Washington
Post" says that I'm a bully.
OK, how do we deal with this?
How is this sourced?
And, in fact, I wasn't a bully.
Just reading out the
things in Wikileaks
doesn't make one a bully.
But that's what they're
allowed to get away with,
because they still
have this credibility
in the eyes of many people--
same with the "New York Times."
And I think they're
both losing it rapidly.
Because you start crying wolf
enough times, there's no wolf,
people aren't
going to trust you.
Like the online bully thing,
that probably cost them
some credibility.
Because people go, oh,
he's criticizing someone
based on very credible things.
>> SEAN: Well, I think a lot
of that credibility that people
give to "The Washington
Post" and "New York Times"
is oftentimes built on money.
It's built on the ability
to brand yourself, right?
And so once you've
created this notion of,
we have power and money, we are
able to control the narrative--
and as you say, people
are now shifting
in terms of their appeal.
The appeal is more
based on personalities,
based on having a resonance and
believing, I trust this person,
I like this person, I'm
more inclined to believe
that narrative.
But do you think that what
we're going to see now
is that Facebook, Twitter,
and these other platforms
are going to try to
work to basically censor
the alternative voices?
>> SEAMAN: Some of them
appear to be heading in that
direction.
And they're just going
to lose business-wise.
Why would I use Facebook
if I know they're starting
to censor alternative views?
People used to
log in to Facebook
to see what their
friends were thinking
and to see what the
non-mainstream people were
thinking, at least
some people do that.
That's the point of Twitter, is
to get these different views.
And yeah, what I had read--
I don't know how credible it
is, but Zuckerberg and Facebook
were considering using
Media Matters for America
as the third-party vetting
source for what is fake news
or not.
I take exception to
that, because the founder
of Media Matters is David Brock,
a very close Clinton insider.
This is not a claim that
anybody can push back
against because
everybody knows it.
He's very close to
the Clintons, and he's
very close to some of
the people involved
in some upcoming
political scandals.
So they're simply not
credible to judge something
in an unbiased way.
We don't want that
on the right, either.
We don't want some
right-wing think tank
to tell us what is
news and what is not.
So why would we want the
left-wing version of that?
>> SEAN: You don't want Steve
Bannon's group basically
censoring the news
any more than Brock,
who is a Super PAC donor
for the Democratic Party.
>> SEAMAN: Exactly.
Why should fact-checking
be a political thing?
It shouldn't.
>> SEAN: Exactly.
It should not be politicized.
And so I think obviously
the key is going to be,
how do we survive also?
Even in this
administration, we don't
know what's going to
come as far as utilizing
censorship as a tool
basically to silence
the dissident voices.
But to me, it's like people
talk about how America
is more divided maybe since
going back to the Civil Rights
era, the Civil War.
People are talking about
this very divided climate
as though it's a bad thing.
Don't you agree
maybe actually this
is exactly what we do need?
We do need the divisions
so that we can actually
start to recognize that
we don't have a consensus
reality, that in
order to get at truth,
you have to sometimes
divide, you have to question,
you have to challenge,
you have to be at odds
and polarized in order to
find a new middle ground
or a new reality?
>> SEAMAN: Yeah, well, let's
look at what's actually
happened.
"The Washington Post"
is a great example.
Because you have this
brand that people trusted,
and really, the brand was
trusted because of the work
of individuals years ago.
The former editor-in-chief
Katharine Graham, I believe,
was not terrible.
And you go back further,
Woodward and Bernstein-- that's
the reason why people trust
"The Washington Post,"
is that that was the banner
that broke Watergate, basically.
And they have been
coasting on that popularity
in that trust for 30 years,
and they've abused it.
And I think this has happened
in different areas of society,
not just the media.
You look at the US dollar.
From Nixon onward, it's just
been a promise, just a note
that we use based
on mutual faith.
As an intermediate good,
basically, we use US dollars.
And so for 30 years, we've been
coasting on this good faith
that is drying up.
Look at the past president.
Close to half the population
did not support him.
Look at now.
You have around
half the population
that does not support the
current elected leader.
So there is definitely
division in the country.
My question is, is
it organic division?
Or is it being directed
by the mainstream media
to divide us along
different fault lines?
And then the other
question is, are people
really so divided and angry?
Or are they just upset
because the economy is sliding
and we don't really have
the language or the outlets
to discuss it?
Like we all know
inflation is real.
Like it's not Ron
Paul apocalypse real,
but we know it's real because
things are more expensive.
And we don't have
the framework to talk
to each other about this.
And we know that the jobs
are not good anymore,
because people who are 50 are
Ubering, whereas they used
to have a pension or something.
They worked at the factory,
and then they have a pension,
and they're taken care of.
Nobody is taken care of anymore.
And so there is
definitely division.
But my question is, is it
basically economic unease
that the elites are
able to redirect
into certain narratives?
Or is this just a
divided country?
I don't know.
>> SEAN: Going into this
issue of the elites creating
a narrative, the Nixon
administration used fake news
to create the war on
drugs, if I'm correct.
Describe that
history a little bit.
>> SEAMAN: I'm not an
expert on the Nixon era,
but my understanding was that
there were really two pushes
to criminalize cannabis.
And the first was in the '30s,
and it was primarily racist.
But it was also being
driven by industry.
There were concerns that hemp
was pushing out cotton mills
and all of this stuff.
Hemp was in many ways
a superior product,
so the people not pushing
that product obviously
wanted to get rid of it.
That was the first wave.
And the second wave that
really sealed the nail
in the coffin of cannabis use
in the United States was Nixon.
And my understanding was
that some of his advisers
were looking around.
There's widespread dissent
to the war in Vietnam--
not a popular war.
More and more Americans were
dropping their support for it.
And some of his
advisers go, look,
we can't put people in prison
for violations for protesting,
because that's protected
by the First Amendment.
That's not illegal.
But all these people happen to
have cannabis joints on them.
If we can whip up a frenzy
and get this criminalized,
all the protesters disappear
because they either
don't want to be seen
in public, or we're
going to put them in prison.
And I believe that was enacted.
And I think, to an
extent, we're still
living with the poor decisions
of the Nixon administration.
I had an MD recently who
thought I was off the wall
about my pro-cannabis stuff.
And then he started
looking through some
of the medical journals
that are coming out now
and some of the continuing
education classes for MDs.
And he was saying
to me, my god, we've
really been misled, like
people should not have
been going to prison for this.
The biopharmacology of
this thing is crazy.
It's good for depression.
It's good for IBS.
It's good for arthritis pain.
He's listing all this stuff.
I'm like, look, I know.
I live in Colorado.
I know there's something to it.
So yeah.
>> SEAN: Absolutely.
I mean, you mentioned,
obviously, some of the benefits
aside from the medicinal
purposes for smoking marijuana,
but hemp itself is used for
cloth and clothing, for paper.
Obviously it's a
wonderful plant.
And the fact that it's been
so demonized throughout--
>> SEAMAN: Well,
that's the thing.
It is a plant.
And somehow it made its way
from plant to Schedule 1 drug,
which you think somebody
in a lab concocting things.
Even the most high-grade
versions of cannabis
that people are
fearmongered against,
you're just taking the
oil from the plant,
and then you're vaporizing it.
There's no drug use.
>> SEAN: But I believe you've
said smoking weed is actually
a religious experience, right?
>> SEAMAN: Not many people
have made this argument,
and I'm not sure why.
Because as far as I can
tell, it would actually work.
It's First-Amendment
protected activity.
And I know there have been
attempts in states like Indiana
to set up churches, saying
this is one of our practices.
I don't think you
need to go that far.
I genuinely believe that it's
a spiritual practice when
a person gets high.
And in Genesis of the Bible,
the Judeo-Christian God
says that you have access
to every seed-bearing plant.
Well, cannabis sativa is
not an exception from that.
It's a seed-bearing plant.
And it was found naturally
throughout North America.
So why would that one be
one that God doesn't like?
Why would that one be
one that's off limits?
Of course, God doesn't care.
It's Nixon that didn't like it.
And we know now why.
So we need to correct
course there, I think.
And, yeah, it is a
spiritual experience.
I think whenever you
get outside of sober--
you said consensus reality--
whenever you break
out of that, you're
doing something
that is spiritual.
And you look at the US,
the founding fathers,
some people believe,
we're into cannabis.
We don't know that for sure.
What we do know for
sure is that they
were into the hemp industry.
And then we know other Western
thinkers like Shakespeare, they
believe, were using cannabis.
They found THC residue in
one of his smoking pipes.
Why didn't make a big
deal out of it then?
It was not regulated
or criminalized.
So your average adult man who
was in an intellectual field
might have just used
cannabis, and there
would have been no
public discussion of it
because it would be
like drinking a tea.
Why would you point that out?
>> SEAMAN: Well, absolutely.
I mean, frankly we
know historically
that drugs were often used
for initiatory purposes
within religious contexts.
And frankly, the
biggest argument
that I could say against
certain drugs, whether it
be cocaine or heroin or
the more hardcore drugs,
is that they basically
have deviated
from the original plant and the
original purpose of it, which
was not just for recreation
and fun and partying,
but actually to
have an awakening
and a raising of consciousness.
Do you think that we're
going to potentially see,
because of the legalization
of marijuana in states
like Colorado and Washington
and now California,
that it's really just going
to boom, that ultimately we're
going to see America
transformed in the next four
to eight years, let's
say, and legalization
across the country?
>> SEAMAN: I think
we're already seeing it.
If you think about it, New
York State now has medical.
I met a woman who
has a medical card.
She's now getting legal
cannabis in New York, which
is one of the most
big-government regulated,
anti-cannabis states,
in my opinion.
And she has access to it now,
thanks to them moving forward.
Massachusetts has
legal recreational.
That's been enacted.
So just a matter of time now.
I never thought I'd
see within my lifetime
legal recreational
weed in Boston.
I guess it makes sense, right?
The original Tea
Party started there.
So that's interesting.
Just earlier this morning,
I think two hours ago, Maine
officially legalized.
So now you can grow
and consume in Maine.
So it definitely seems
like it's happening.
The argument against
it has fallen the way.
I've smoked hundreds of times.
I haven't noticed any
reduction in intelligence.
I know many successful
type-A people who smoke,
and I think we are
simply lied to.
I think it's easier
to just say, hey,
we were lied to, than
to continue to come up
with all these explanations.
I'll talk to somebody every
once in a while in Alabama
or Georgia, and they give me
this reasoning where it's like,
no, no, no, we can't have it
here because of A, B, and C.
I'm like, no, it's
the same plant.
It's not any different in
Colorado or California.
It's the same thing.
So we have to look
at the science,
as that MD was telling me.
There are these amazing
biopharmacology properties
that don't exist anywhere else.
And people are adults.
They deserve the best treatment.
And they deserve that
spiritual experience.
>> SEAN: Even anti-carcinogenic
purposes, as I understand it,
like hemp oil, for example,
is supposed to be great
for combating cancers.
>> SEAMAN: That's what
people are saying.
And anecdotally,
there's a lot of stuff
that it's great for--
seizures, great for depression.
People have to
realize for many years
the only studies that
were being funded
were ones trying to prove harm.
Whenever you do that, you're not
going to find the good stuff.
Now that we have a thawing
of views on weed, let's look.
Does it actually
help depression?
Does it actually help IBS?
Does it actually help with
anti-cancer properties?
And so far the answer--
it's a cautious answer,
but it seems to be yes.
>> SEAN: But there obviously is
one concern I know from smaller
growers.
As they're seeing
legalization of marijuana,
potentially you're going to see
basically the big agribusiness
coming in.
The Monsantos of
the world they see
coming in and putting their
herbicides and pesticides
into the plants themselves,
controlling the industry.
Is that a potential danger
from this legalization process?
>> SEAMAN: I think there are
always dangers from the big
money taking over.
But I'll give you an example.
In Maryland, they have
already passed medical laws,
but there has been
this big holdup.
They don't actually have any
dispensaries serving weed yet,
even though it was
passed years ago.
The reason why is that the
Maryland Cannabis Commission,
from what I understand, they're
facing potential lawsuits
from minority
groups in Maryland.
Basically a bunch of black
business owners are saying,
we didn't get the right number
of licenses in the bidding
process.
Minority-owned
businesses were shut out,
and it was just big cannabis
that got the contracts.
And so they're pushing
back against it.
And I personally disagree
with them in this case.
It's great if you can
make money from marijuana.
More power to you.
You can do it legally
and hire people.
Here in Colorado, I think
16,500 jobs have been added
due to the legalization thing.
So, great-- but I don't
think the primary purpose
of legalization should be to
make money for entrepreneurs.
I think we need to get it
decriminalized and available
ASAP.
And look, if Monsanto is
going to make all the money
or Coca-Cola is going to launch
some weed product or something,
then that's going to
happen, and you're not
going to be able to stop it.
But I just don't want people
going to prison for it,
and I just don't want cancer
patients and arthritis patients
and people with seizures
to not be able to get it
because somebody is
saying, hey, the big guys
are crushing me out of this.
This is not the
only industry where
the big money moves in and
pushes out the craft beer,
right?
We see this in alcohol.
It's the same thing.
So I think we need
to consider that,
but I just want to see
legal as soon as possible.
>> SEAN: Yeah, and I
totally agree with you,
especially with the prison
population where half of it is
based on nonviolent crimes,
including things like
marijuana.
So you mentioned earlier
about the US dollar,
obviously the strongest
currency in the world
over this post-World War II era.
And yet there is this new
Bitcoin online currency
that's now circulating.
What is Bitcoin?
And how will it
compare ultimately
to the dollar and potentially
transcend the dollar?
>> SEAMAN: Yeah, this relates
to your idea of reality
fracturing, of consensus
reality fracturing.
Because you need a strong
consensus for something
like the dollar to work.
It's the fiat currency
for the United States.
So a good way of
thinking about it is it's
like an arcade
token when you enter
the arcade, known as the US.
You hit US soil, you
have to use our tokens
to pay for everything from
parking to food, et cetera.
You go to the EU, you
have to use the euro token
to do something there.
So there is a rarity that builds
up over time for these tokens
because we need
them to do anything.
But when you look at
the creation process,
it is literally just an
old woman in New York City,
in the case of the
Federal Reserve.
It's Janet Yellen and
her board of governors.
They decide when to create
more of these tokens.
You look at the EU, it's Draghi
and his peers in Brussels,
I believe, or in
Belgium, saying, look,
we're going to create this
many new euro over the next two
years.
Here you go.
That's just a human
being deciding something.
It's just an
unelected politician
coming up with something.
Bitcoin was invented
some eight years ago.
And like the dollar, like
the euro, just a rare token.
It's called a bitcoin.
It's not called a US dollar.
But he put some
cool limits on it.
There are only 21 million
coins that will ever exist.
And right now, about 16.5
million coins have been mined.
And so he created a
software program that
mimics the psychology of gold.
Gold always emerged
throughout history
as a really good form of money
because it's a rare token, just
like the dollar.
But it's not something
that's political.
When you have a piece of
gold, that was a fair process,
because someone somewhere
had to mine for it.
Even if it was 500 years
ago in some king's camp,
it was mined at one
point, and there
is an exchange of labor
for this form of money.
With the dollar
and the euro, that
doesn't exist, because
they're creating it
through political decree.
Bitcoin brings us back to that
fair, older version of money,
because every token of bitcoin
that's out there, someone
had to mine for it.
Someone's computer
in their basement
or in their dorm room--
or now it's actually
professional facilities
in a lot of cases.
Some server somewhere
mined for that coin
and expended labor and
time, computing time,
to earn that coin.
So it's a neat idea.
>> SEAN: Right.
So the idea is that there's a
fixed amount of this bitcoin.
But what makes it different from
just any of the currency that
floats basically
on the exchange,
in terms of how in-demand
it is raises the value
or splinters it?
>> SEAMAN: Sure.
Well, there are
technical differences.
Whoever created it-- Satoshi
Nakamoto is the pseudonym he
used--
the rarity is enforced by this
thing called the block chain.
So there is a ledger of every
single Bitcoin transaction,
going back to the very
first ones in 2009.
And every block of transactions
builds of the prior block.
I won't get into the
details, but basically it's
like a big puzzle board,
where the next puzzle
piece doesn't fit
in unless you've
solved the previous puzzle.
So every block every 10
minutes is reconciled,
all those transactions,
and then it
becomes a part of the permanent
record in this ledger,
this block chain.
So that's how they
keep it rare, is
there's no introduction
of counterfeit bitcoin.
There's no increase
in the money supply.
It's still going to be
a max of 21 million.
>> SEAN: We've seen historically
people have cornered the silver
market, cornered
the gold market.
Why can't a George
Soros or Bill Gates
go in and basically with his
minions buy up all the bitcoins
and corner the
market and basically
control the price at that point?
>> SEAMAN: I think that
could definitely happen,
at least temporarily.
There's no control against that.
What's so neat about bitcoin is
that we just see all the terms.
We know how many exist.
We can see them moving
around the world thanks
to that block chain innovation.
So there's more transparency
than with the dollar.
But the main thing is the
difference in how it's created.
You have individuals voluntarily
deciding to mine for bitcoin
because they think
they'll make a profit
or because they're
ideologically aligned
with government-free money.
Whatever their
reason is, they're
voluntarily deciding to use it.
And I think that's
the difference.
When I was born
in this country, I
didn't have a say in whether
or not all of my labor
would be represented by dollars.
I was born here.
It's got to be
represented that way.
Except Janet Yellen-- I've
never met her before--
I don't necessarily agree
with her views on the world.
So why should that
be my currency?
>> SEAN: Right.
So the idea is this is a way of
challenging the Federal Reserve
System.
And ideally, there will
be more bitcoin-type
of virtual currencies
that pop up,
basically like in a
free-market system,
where there's not a centralized
control over the currency.
But there is an
argument that the elite
do want to go to a
cashless society.
They're moving in that
direction in India, for example.
>> SEAMAN: They are.
>> SEAN: And the
question is that,
wouldn't that make
it easier, then,
for the powers that be
to basically monitor
our transactions if we do go
cashless through these things
like bitcoin?
>> SEAMAN: So my understanding
is the elites within finance
really love central banks.
Because then they can get
somebody like Janet Yellen
or like her counterparts at the
EU to just do what they want.
So, hey, you have to print
more money this year.
We need some inflation.
We need some monetary growth.
And then it gets done.
There's always this ability
to push back politically
on the money system.
Bitcoin is divorced from that.
And you mentioned that it's a
protest of the Federal Reserve.
I agree.
But it's also a
global invention.
There are people in China who
don't trust their government,
and they've made a lot
of money from whatever,
from a computer company.
They don't want all of their
savings going into Chinese yuan
because they see the
Chinese government keeps
printing more of them.
So they want bitcoin as a way of
jumping out the global economy.
And there are people
in countries like India
who want it for
the same reasons.
So the thing to remember is
bitcoin is the ultimate cash.
It is government-free cash.
So when you talk about a
move to a cashless society,
it's a real concern.
It is happening.
But bitcoin is a cash
they don't control.
And if Soros or somebody
wants to corner the market,
he's going to pay a
price reflexivity.
Bitcoin is so rare that to
attempt to corner the market
would drive you up to,
let's say, a $10,000 coin
very quickly, at which
point you couldn't
control much of the market.
Does that make sense?
Once they signal how
much they want it,
they're only going to be
able to buy a small percent
from the rest of us.
>> SEAN: They
would outprice you.
>> SEAMAN: Yeah.
>> SEAN: So there's a
question from our audience.
Lauren in Texas asks, so
what does happen to Bitcoin
if the government
tries to regulate it?
How is Bitcoin designed
such that government
can't regulate it, for example?
Or can the government
regulate it?
>> SEAMAN: In, the US, there's
already been substantial
discussion.
And not formal
regulation in all states,
but definitely
the companies that
are interacting with
bitcoin are regulated
SMBs, as Money Service
Businesses, in some cases.
There's been a
lot of controversy
over whether that's necessary.
But companies like
Coinbase have been courting
all of the licenses and stuff.
There already is regulation
around bitcoin in the US.
There's some
regulation in Europe.
China seems to keep going back
and forth as to whether or not
they condone it or not.
But for the time being, it
exists in a gray area, where
it's certainly legal to buy.
It's certainly legal to sell.
The tax implications
aren't necessarily
fully fleshed out everywhere.
But it's reached the
point of legality,
where you can at least obtain
it without many problems.
>> SEAN: So ultimately you think
that Bitcoin is the currency
of the future.
Or at least let's say
that cyber currencies will
be our future currencies?
>> SEAMAN: I think Bitcoin
is promising so far.
But it's really a
social phenomenon.
It was people saying, hey, we
don't want US dollars anymore.
You just collapse
our financial system.
You have to keep in mind,
Bitcoin launched in early 2009.
And there are
indications that he
was doing that as
a partial protest
to the financial collapse.
One of the notes on an
early Bitcoin transaction
referenced a news story about
the collapse, I believe.
So a number of
young people said,
we're going to represent
our value with bitcoin
instead of US dollars or euro.
Way too early to tell
if bitcoin is the one.
Promising so far, but
gold does something
in a very similar way.
And gold has existed without
interruption for 6,000 years.
So I'm a fan of gold and
bitcoin for different reasons.
But Bitcoin definitely
attempts to mimic the success
that gold has had.
And we haven't had
internet money before.
So it's just so new
it's hard to say.
>> SEAN: So I think I think
what you just said about bitcoin
being like the virtual
version of gold,
I think that's a
really astute analogy.
In your assessment overall,
the landscape of what
we're looking at, are
we looking basically
at the post nation-state world?
I mean, do you think
that's what's coming?
So basically it's
smart to get out
of the Federal-Reserve-backed
dollar system and economy
as much as possible and try
to basically open ourselves up
as virtual citizens,
online citizens,
creating our own cyberspace, our
own virtual communities, things
like this?
>> SEAMAN: Yeah.
That's another
question that's so big.
I don't know which
direction it'll go in,
but we're starting to
realize globalism failed.
The elites in academia
and in finance
have been pushing
us toward globalism,
and we've reached this
breaking point where
it can't be integrated anymore.
And you're seeing pushback
from different nations--
EU, the UK with
their Brexit, here
in the US with the
election of Donald Trump.
You're seeing a
return to nationalism.
And nationalism does
not mean socialism.
It does not mean racism.
It just means a return to
nationalistic economies.
I think as that
continues to fracture,
you'll see some
weird stuff happen.
We are, in a sense, living
in a postmodern world.
How is it that Bitcoin is
a $14.5-billion market cap
currency when eight years
ago it was zero dollars?
So we've put $14.5
billion of faith
into Bitcoin in
just eight years.
People are consumers
at the end of the day.
I know I'm a consumer.
I want to use the
best possible money.
If it's gold or bitcoin,
why would I use dollars?
I want to start saving
in gold and bitcoin.
I want the best possible news.
If you're providing it, then
why would I watch CNN, right?
So I think as consumers,
we're just so smart
with our smartphones that we're
getting all this information.
Same with cannabis-- I was very
conservative as a young person.
I found it was simply
not what I was told.
And at a certain
point, at what point
do you keep parroting
things that are not true
when your own
personal experience is
this thing is very beautiful?
It's helped a number
of people get out
of pain and addiction
and all this stuff.
It helps you have
creative thoughts.
So like Bitcoin, if
it's outperforming,
consumers will move toward it.
>> SEAN: I think that's
a great summation.
And it gives optimism,
I think, for where
we're going, essentially.
It's not a clear path,
but at least the idea of--
>> SEAMAN: It's not
clear, but it's exciting.
>> SEAN: --the consumer
being empowered,
I think that's the best message
that we can offer people,
to recognize that they have
been empowered by the virtual
revolution, by the
cyberspace revolution.
And we don't even know where
it's going to go from here.
>> SEAMAN: Definitely.
It's like Terrance McKenna said.
The cybernetic revolution,
the computer, the internet,
all that stuff, it wasn't meant
for us, but we have it now.
So we're getting all
the benefits of it.
>> SEAN: Yeah.
Thank you so much for
joining me today, David.
Really appreciate your time.
>> SEAMAN: Yeah.
Thank you.
>> SEAN: Pleasure.
And there you go, folks--
fascinating insights
from David Seaman.
You might agree with or believe
everything said here today,
so I urge to check
out his YouTube
channel, DavidSeamanOnline,
for more details.
And remember, the road to
truth is a perilous path
along the buzzsaw's edge.
It requires constant
reassessment.
I'm your host, Sean Stone.
You are the revolution.
[THEME MUSIC]